## [Preventing a parallel pandemic - A national strategy to protect clinicians’ well-being](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp2011027?query=TOC) ||  5.13.20

A commentary on the effects COVID 19 has had on the people on the front lines of fighting this disease. This article dives into the way COVID has hurt the mental health of young clinicians across the country. The picture portrayed in the hospitals are very bleak as doctors are forced to make very tough calls in the hospital. In such a vulnerable time, our physicians are often our biggest resource and our one lifeline. This article brings light to the way we may be unintentionally putting too much responsibility on their shoulders. Young physicians who have just recently come into the field are sometimes not ready for what we are going through as a nation. Being on the front lines, it is our responsibility as a nation to defend our physicians just as they defend us. 

## [Fair Allocation of Scarce Medical Resources in the Time of Covid-19](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMsb2005114?query=RP)  ||  3.23.20

With scarcity regarding medical resources becoming a huge problem during the COVID 19 pandemic, this article brings up the ethical issues we may face and types of frameworks we might have to use in order to act in response to these questions. With predictions that the US is woefully short on supplies from N95 masks to ventilators, we find ourselves in the position to make some very tough decisions. Even before that many questions arise about who is to make those decisions. What ethical frameworks should we have in place? How do we allocate these resources to maximize the life of people? The article gives us 6 recommendations to try and guide us to the best possible scenario in the case that the worst does occur and we find ourselves short on medical supplies as a nation. 

## [The Toughest Triage — Allocating Ventilators in a Pandemic](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp2005689?query=RP)  ||  3.23.20

This article introduces a concept of a triage, or a panel that would make decisions on withdrawing ventilators and making those tough calls in order to save the most lives. It dives into how this system would work and the potential impacts on physicians. There are major potential impacts on physicians’ mental health along with their physical health. This type of committee would attempt to take responsibility for ventilator distributions off physicians. By eliminating the physicians responsibility for making these decisions, the goal is to make more objective judgements in order to maximize the lifespans of the patients who are in need of this equipment. 

## [Responding to COVID-19 - A Once in a Century Pandemic?](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp2003762?query=TOC) ||  2.28.20

This early article dissects the nature of COVID-19 at the time and puts forth suggestions about what the government should do in order to prepare for the potential outbreak. From government funding to suggestions on what direction to take research and vaccine production, the author presents ideas on how to limit the spread of the disease and bring it to a halt before it grows. Using this article in conjunction with the New York Times article allows for two different angles on the same issue. The bottom line is that both portray a sense of urgency that was sadly not heeded appropriately. This article is a great resource to look back and gauge how well we have handled this disease.  

## [Coronavirus Can Be Stopped Only by Harsh Steps, Experts Say](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-restrictions-us.html) ||  3.22.20

This article highlights the steps that should be taken as a society to halt the spread of the disease. It explores how countries like China were successful in bringing this disease to a halt. The key word is harsh. The nature of this pandemic gives it the advantage of being very quick to spread and the measures we must take to socially distance are crucial. The author stresses the importance of enforcing these rules if we want to hold back the disease from spreading. Looking at this article in hindsight, it reveals the errors we made as a nation in the USA. Whether that error lies in our guidance or leadership or just the behavior of the general populace, the disease has spread.